So far, you've learned the key features and challenges of the SLAM problem.
Now, you will learn how to overcome
these challenges and solve the online and full SLAM problems.
But before we dive into any state-of-the-art SLAM algorithm,
let's recap what we have learned from localization.
While solving the localization problem,
we use different approaches to estimate a robot's pose inside an environment.
One of these approaches was
the particle filter approach implemented in the Monte Carlo localization algorithm.
Each of these particles have the robot pose
along with the important weight of the particle.
Using this approach, we were able to accurately estimate any robot's pose.
Now, let's imagine that you modified
the particle filter approach by adding another dimension to each particle.
The new particle will now hold the robot's pose, as well as the map.
Would that solve the SLAM problem? Not really.
This approach will fade and that's because the map is
modeled with many variables resulting in high dimensionality.
Thus, the particle filter approach to SLAM in
this current form will scale exponentially and doomed to fail.